legendary rowing coach Steve Gladstone
has been known to turn around a program
or two in his time so when he was
offered the head coaching job here at
Yale he was up for the challenge perfect
wherever Steve Gladstone goes success
follows a coaching career that started
in the tiggerbird
and continues to flourish today there's
nothing quite as satisfying as watching
and helping people reach their goals
Gladstone played football and wrestled
in high school rode in college but upon
graduation he pursued a job in business
a job at a desk and he quickly found out
was not wrong about a month injury I
just got on the bed method is this what
adult wife's going to be I was really in
despair you know and at that particular
time I asked myself the right question
and that question was where have you
felt the most engaged where have you
felt a happiest and that was on the
athletic field and on the river oh wait
on that or handle don't wait on the or
handle and so began his coaching career
first in Princeton then to Harvard
California Berkeley twice brown and
eventually to Yale what I find most
compelling yo are the if you want to
call them the reconstruction projects
the Yale program was in need of
reconstruction I realized this would be
sort of the consummate challenge you
know there's there's a saying God gives
you the challenges that you're able to
meet and Yale looked like a pretty tough
one
and and it wasn't lost on me that this
is the you know this is where it all
began the gladstone Yale considered the
birthplace of collegiate rowing had to
change its own expect
and he started by making it clear every
athlete had to be fully committed to the
sport we don't have a lot of space
for people who don't want to bring it a
question go its attention to detail it's
bringing a limiter to the time that
you're training and practicing once he
was hired in 2010 the Yale Rome culture
began to change all that stuff out of
your mind
okay let's be here the oarsmen no longer
relied on his insistence the full
commitment they developed their own and
made the expectations clear to all their
teammates this helped attract a higher
level athlete and what happened at all
his other coaching stops winning began
to take place again
fishing a lesson in the Champions League
abuser glory beyond universe
strong connecticut this he considers a
seminal moment for the program a victory
at the 2015 henley royal regatta easily
being the national champion washington
husband this could only be done with
people who are eager to to achieve it at
a high level and that's exactly what the
bulldogs have been doing they changed
their fortunes in the oldest collegiate
sporting event in the country the yale
harvard regatta and are now ranked as
one of if not the best team in the sport
well what a great victory for you for
Yale it's the combination of his astute
knowledge the biomechanics of increasing
speed on the water getting that core
business when you start your push and
start your drive you feel it right right
in the end right in the core with innate
leadership skills bringing everyone
together with a common goal and the
drive to meet that goal that has created
such profound success so far be it from
the coach regarded as one of the best
ever to rest on his laurels in fact he
may very well be driven by insecurity
there's never a sense of mastery I don't
hear every year there are times where
you're fraught with anxiety did we do
the right stuff did we not do the right
I mean absolutely
because it's that nature that's that
level of how would you call it for one
of the better word insecurities
it drives you Gladstone says there will
be a next for him perhaps another
reconstruction project but it won't be
collegiate coaching Yale he says in his
final high level coaching job as long as
I feel I'm being effective I'll continue
to do it if I have a sense that that's
not happening
yeah but I'll be doing for a while